This is an All-Ears English Podcast Episode 2656.
Why not be more spontaneous in English?
Welcome to the All-Ears English Podcast.
Downloaded more than 200 million times.
Are you feeling stuck with your English?
We'll show you how to become fearless and fluent by focusing on connection, not perfection.
With your American hosts, Lindsay McMahon, the English adventurer,
and Michelle Kaplan, the New York Radio Girl, coming to you from Colorado and New York City,
USA.
And to get your transcript delivered by email every week, go to allhearsenglish.com,
forward slash subscribe.
Are you someone who is up for anything?
In today's episode, learn the true meaning of the phrase why not,
and find out how to use it to be open to spontaneous things in your life.
Have you ever met someone whose English wasn't perfect, but they sounded incredibly fluent?
That's because fluency isn't about perfection. It's about flow.
It's about expressing ideas clearly, responding naturally, and staying engaged in the conversation,
and generally feeling connected. If you're ready to move beyond accuracy and into true fluency,
start by finding your current level. Take our free two-minute fluency quiz today.
Go to allhearsenglish.com slash fluency score. That's allhearsenglish.com slash F-L-U-E-N-C-Y-S-C.
O-R-E.
Hey, Michelle. Should we record three more episodes today? What do you think?
Why not? Let's do it. We record a lot of podcasts this podcast.
So why not? We know.
We know. Whether it's three, if it's six, at this point, what's the difference?
Yeah, we just love all our things. We love being behind the mic here, chatting with each other.
So, Michelle, what are we getting into on the episode today?
So today we are going to talk about what people mean when they say, why not?
Right? So that's what I said to you. When you said, should we record three more episodes today?
And I said, why not? Which seems a little bit like, I don't mean yes, I don't mean no.
Because when we say, why not here, Lindsay, is it the typical way of asking,
like, doesn't mean what we think of why not to mean? It depends on the context.
It can mean it can be a totally genuine yes. It can also be like, are you crazy?
It can be sarcastic. It can be a lot of things, in my opinion. What do you think, Michelle?
Yeah, I mean, but I think typically in a textbook, you know, our listeners have probably heard
why not? And they think, oh, can we do this? No, why not? Right?
Asking why something can't be done. Why not?
Right. So that's what I would say, like, the traditional way. So we're teaching you
that why not can actually be pretty versatile and fun?
Mm-hmm. Yeah, kind of playful. Is that what you mean by fun?
Yeah, pretty, pretty playful. It's just not necessarily what you always see in your textbooks.
So guys, we are giving you the real English over here.
And just a different way that you can use this because Lindsay, when I told you what this episode
was going to be about, you said, oh, I say this a lot. I do. I feel like I do. Yeah, in everyday
life. So this is a place where your textbooks may have led you astray, right? Or may have given
you the very literal definition. Right. We're going to show you how it comes out in culture and
society in real life, right? Real life English here. Yeah, we're going to talk about why it's so
natural and why it can really be great for connection. And even past this episode, we could continue
talking about this for different contexts. But let's give it a start today and guys, make sure that
you hit the follow button so that you never miss anything from allers English.
We are here. How many episodes do we do a week, Lindsay? We do five episodes a week. And guys,
don't forget, we're also over on YouTube. If you want to watch this episode instead of listen to
it, if you're more of a YouTube person, you could go over to YouTube and type in all ears English
podcast and hit subscribe. Or if you're an audio person, which is what I am, I'm more of an audio
person, hit follow right there on Apple podcasts or Spotify. Right. Yeah. Why not? Why not? Just
hit the follow button. Yeah. Why not? One of the ways that it can be used is in a certain way,
in a certain time, it can basically mean an enthusiastic yes. It's kind of like saying, well, why wouldn't
we? Or there's no reason not to. Or of course, we should. It's that same kind of sentiment. Don't
you think? Yeah. And we can do a different episode another day on why wouldn't we why wouldn't you?
I hear people using that construction a lot, but that could come another day. So sometimes it's used
when someone is suggesting something a little different maybe, right? Where it's a little out of the
box. So you're saying, sure, I'm up for it. I'm up for anything. Right? Right. It could also just
be something basic, neutral, just a thing. Yeah. Yeah. So let's show our listeners how this might
sound with a couple little mini role plays. Yeah. So should we stop for ice cream before we head back?
Why not? I've been eating so much ice cream lately, Michelle. Did I tell you I did an ice cream
making class? No. Oh my gosh. We did this ice cream making class at a local creamery.
And it was really fun. They showed us how to, you know, how to make the mix. What goes into it,
and then you could put your own toppings in to load up your own ice cream with toppings. But the
problem is they, you left this class with like, I think eight, like eight courts or 10 courts each
of ice cream. Oh my goodness. We have so much ice cream in our freezer. Like we, and we can't,
there's no way we can eat it all. Oh my gosh. Wait. Okay. I have to hear more, but I'll hear more
another time. Of course. More and more. But I'm curious. Is it all the same flavor? Yeah.
They had theme nights. So the night that we went to is chocolate night. Oh, well,
that's perfect. Yeah. Most of the more popular nights are vanilla nights. I don't know why,
but they are. They don't get that. So yeah. So it's chocolate chocolate base. And then you could
make your own kind of flavor with all the toppings they give you to put into your own ice cream.
So I just loaded mine up Ben and Jerry style. Michelle. I mean, I just loaded it up.
Tell me what I want to hear. What's everything? Reese's pieces. There's Oreo. There's cookie dough,
white chocolate chips. I mean, really good stuff. Yeah. Oh my gosh. So were they like
so you're court. I know. I wish you could. So I feel like they probably said, oh,
and you can add this. And maybe you said, maybe you said to your partner, why not? Should we add
this? Why not? Right? That's how I thought. I mean, they were sitting right in front of me. Why
wouldn't I add all those toppings? That's how I am. I am always even at a salad bar. Just put a
little more. Why not? That's a great use of why not? Right? It's like if your attitude is,
let's indulge. Like, let's just write. I have this thing available at my disposal. There's this
cup of peanut butter cups or whatever. In your case, like really good cheese. And you're going to
put it on your salad bar, right? You're going to put on the salad at the salad bar. Yeah. Yeah.
Exactly. Exactly. So I love that one. All right. Here's another one. Although we could just
talk about ice cream. We could. We could. Okay. Should we just wear jeans to the party? Why not?
I mean, they didn't say anything about a dress code. Yeah. That's where I would default to as well.
Would you consider inviting Kayla? Oh, why not? She's super friendly. So it shows a sense of openness,
openness to trying something new, something different, right? But you can also use it to report
something that happened or even something that you think for yourself. So let's explain
a little more. So here's an example. At first, I really didn't want to go out. I was already in my
pajamas and so tired. But then I thought, why not live a little and ended up being a blast.
Yes. Yes. Yeah. It's rare to get out of pajamas and go out. But if it absolutely is. So this is
about, you know, a story that I'm telling about what was going in my mind. Lindsay, do you hear
people saying that a lot live a little live a little for sure? It's a good one. It's a good one.
That's a bonus phrase for today. Just encouraging yourself or encouraging someone else to
Carp A.D.M. as they say. Yeah. Take advantage of life. Yes. Exactly. Or what's another example?
I didn't think he liked me. But then he asked me to go out to the movies. I thought, why not? He's
a nice guy and we have so much fun together. Yeah. So you're essentially rehashing your own
inner thinking here. Right. Yeah. It's really interesting. Yeah. Yeah.
Starting your own business is a dream for so many people. It's exciting, but it can be overwhelming.
I know because I've done it. But Shopify makes it simpler. All the tools you need to launch are
already included and ready from day one. Shopify's templates and AI tools get you a stunning
site up and running fast. No coding needed. This means that you're free to create your brand in a way
that reflects your company and your values. Shopify checkout means more customers actually buy
and returning ones can do it in a single click. I remember so many long days and nights when I
started all ears English trying to figure out how to make my website work. But Shopify's built-in
AI assistant sidekick is ready to help you build, troubleshoot and keep moving if questions come up.
All you need is the idea Shopify handles the rest.
Start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AEE. Again, start your free trial at Shopify.com slash
AEE. One more time. Get your free trial at SHOPIFY.com slash AEE.
So Michelle, why is this good for connection? I mean, what is the vibe that comes off of us when we
say why not? I think it's casual. It's a kind of cool sounding and also, yeah, it shows that openness
to being maybe a little spontaneous. Maybe, you know, oh, I am getting out of my pajamas and into
my clothes to go to this party. Openness. Yes. Yeah. And I think it's, I think when people hear that,
it's, it's endearing and makes you likeable because it shows that, okay, this person is not stuck
in their ways. I mean, we did an episode just on episode 2650 about, you know, flat out knows,
right? And this is more, you know, we're talking more about the yeses here. Why not? Why not? Right?
Yes. I love it. It does show, it shows that the person's fun and that they maybe you want to get
to know them because they do fun things in life. They're open to things, right? Right. Right. Let's do
a couple other things that you might hear. So one is might as well. And this is usually saying you
should do something for some reason. You should do something for some reason. Let's show our listeners
in a role play here. Hey, want to grab dinner before the show? Might as well. There are great
restaurants around the theater. So you're kind of saying like it would be convenient to do that.
Because there are so many good restaurants here as opposed to waiting till you get home and then
there's nothing in the fridge, right? Yeah. Or if we just wait until, you know, just to get stacks
at the theater and then there's, you know, we're just sitting eating M&Ms for dinner. Right. Right.
And then you feel awful. Yeah. Totally. Or let's do it. Now, let's do it. It's just when someone
asks you if you want to do something and you're all in, right? This is more typical or traditional,
but it's also casual too. Yeah. It's kind of casual, I think. I think so too.
Should we pick up some takeout on the way home? Let's do it. I really want to try that new sushi place.
Okay. Yeah. So yeah, these just are all ways to say, yes, I'm open. You know, I'm not set.
Nothing is set in stone. Let's try this. So I really like these. And especially why not?
I have noticed myself using it more. Like I, I, I realized that I use it now since I plan
this episode. Okay. I use it a lot. Yeah. Interesting. I mean, I think one of the key points here is,
I know that our listeners really want to become more spontaneous in their language, but a big part
of that is mentality, right? And these phrases help you to be spontaneous mentally speaking,
like open to anything, which language might flow from there. You know, if you have that attitude,
maybe your language also comes out spontaneously. So there you go. Interesting.
It's true. Yeah. All right. Should we do a role play? Yes. Here we are friends and we're at the
beach. So what better time to be spontaneous, right? Yes. All right. Okay. Here we go. Should we set
up shop here? Yeah. Let's do it. This is a great spot. Ooh, that guy is selling lemonade once
on. Why not? Nothing better on a hot day. Oh, look at those people playing volleyball. Should we
ask to join? Oh, might as well. I love playing volleyball. Yeah. It can be contagious too. When
you know you're in the company of someone who is very much there like up for anything, up for anything,
I was going to say yes person, but that means something totally different doesn't
mean something completely different. We could do that in a different episode. Yeah. Up for anything
is a much better way than you also take on that attitude a little bit. Yeah. Yeah. You're kind of
encouraged each other. Yeah. Then your influence spot. I mean, of course we don't want to be
influenced for negative things. Yeah. That's goes into peer pressure. That's a good point. Yeah.
Yeah. Yeah. That's different. You're talking about fun light things. Yeah. Yeah. We're
like adding extra white chocolate chips to your ice cream. Yeah. We're going to talk about like
robbing a store here guys. Please don't do that. Oh gosh. Let's do it. No. No. Not like that. Okay.
So I said, should we set up shop here? So Lindsey, that's an interesting bonus for today.
Yeah. That is up shop. And I could see our listeners might have gotten confused because someone
over there is selling lemonade. So are you actually talking about a let you're going to set up a
lemonade stand two or what? I'm talking about where we're going to put our towels, where we're
going to put our stuff down, maybe get an umbrella. Yeah. So that's actually I didn't catch that
the first time, but it's really interesting. You're not you're not selling anything. You're not
setting up a shop. Okay. But you are setting up your station like your like your home
big area for the day. Yeah. You're home. Because that's always what you do when you go to the beach,
right? You got to you got to pick your spot. You got to put all your junk down. Yes. Yes.
Totally. It's like camping is similar. You got to make sure you're in the right spot.
They're in a lot of shade. They're in a lot of sun. All this stuff. Should we go over here?
Should we are there's two more here? Yeah. Yeah. There's always kind of a little like debate
back and forth. Yes. It's just the beach. Just yeah. Put your stuff down. Just sit down.
But I said, should we set up shop here and you said, let's do it. This is a great spot.
And then you said, oh, that guy is selling lemonade. Want some? And you and I said, why not?
And that means yes, I want some. Why wouldn't I have lemonade? And there's no reason not to.
Exactly. And then you said, oh, look at those people playing volleyball. Should we ask to join?
And I said, might as well. I love playing volleyball. So it's convenient. It's right over here.
I enjoy playing volleyball. Might as well. Might as well. All right. Good. So we are going to have
a good day at the beach here because we're clearly up for anything, Michelle. I mean,
exactly. We're going to have fun. Yeah. Guys, go over to 2643 of all our English. The
warning signs were there. How to relate over early indications of a problem. Kind of the polar
opposite feeling of today's episode, right? Yeah. That's very interesting to get the whole range
of skills in English. Michelle, what's our takeaway today? Yeah, takeaway is that I think that
openness is kind of contagious. And this is just such a more unique way of just saying, yeah, sure.
Yes. It's playful. It's open. And you know, sometimes maybe you think, oh, I don't, oh, I
typically don't do this. But all right, why not? Right? And it can be fun. And then that's
sometimes what leads to the best experiences. It's kind of a chance to be a new version of yourself
in a way. Right? These phrases give you that way to find a new version of yourself, even if it's
just for a day, because you're around someone who is that way or you try it on for size and see if
it fits, right? And attitude in life. Interesting. Yeah. Exactly. All right. Well, I'm glad we talked
about this today. Should we jump off the mic? Why not, Michelle? Why not? Let's jump off.
You set me up. You set me up. I said you are. I said you are. All right. Well, I'll see you in the
next one. Michelle. Take care. All right. Bye, Lindsay. Bye.
Thanks for listening to all ears English. Would you like to know your English level? Take our
two-minute quiz. Go to all earsenglish.com forward slash fluency score. And if you believe in
connection, not perfection, then hit subscribe now to make sure you don't miss anything. See you next time.
We start with only the freshest items. Then review your list and carefully choose each one.
Then we pack it all up and deliver it in as little as 30 minutes. So you can feel confident it's
what you ordered. Fresh groceries your way with Ralph's delivery and pickup. And right now,
you can save $20 on your first delivery or pickup order. Ralph's fresh for everyone.
Your way. Whether you DIY or want the pros to handle it all, you'll have the confidence of
knowing it's done right. From free expert design help to our 100% satisfaction guarantee,
everything we do is made to fit your life in your windows. Shop up to 40% off with minimum
purchase and a free professional measure right now at blinds.com. Plus pay at your own pace starting
at 0% APR with a firm terms apply.