This is the All-Ears English Podcast.
Did you see it or did you watch it?
Welcome to the All-Ears English Podcast
downloaded more than 200 million times.
Are you feeling stuck with your English?
We'll show you how to become
fearless and fluent by focusing
on connection, not perfection
with your American host,
Aubrey Carter, the Isles Wiz,
and Lindsay McMahon, the English Adventure.
Coming to you from Arizona and Colorado, USA.
To get real-time transcripts
right on your phone and create
your personalized vocabulary list,
try the All-Ears English app for iOS and Android.
Start your seven-day free trial
at allyoursenglish.com,
forward slash app.
The verbs C and Watch are both key
for sharing how you take in the world,
so they matter for connection.
Let's get them straight today.
Have you ever met someone
whose English wasn't perfect,
but they sounded incredibly fluent?
That's because fluency isn't about perfection.
It's about flow.
It's about expressing ideas clearly,
responding naturally,
and staying engaged in the conversation,
and generally feeling connected.
If you're ready to move beyond accuracy
and into true fluency,
start by finding your current level.
Take our free two-minute fluency quiz today.
Go to allyoursenglish.com,
slash fluency score.
That's allhearsenglish.com,
slash F-L-U-E-N,
C-Y-S-C-O-R-E.
Hey there, Aubrey, what's shaken?
Too much at Lindsay.
Are you watching any good TV shows lately?
Yeah, I mean, I'm back to the classics
that I watched last year like Doc is a good one,
and Ghosts, and...
Yes.
Let's see, Matt Locke is one that I've watched.
Did I tell you I started watching Ghosts?
Oh, he was talking about it.
I watched it with my kids,
because I watched one episode
and I was like, my kids are gonna love this.
It's good on kids.
We love it.
We laugh so hard.
It's so clever.
That's kind of cool that they're able to laugh at that,
because in my head it was like,
okay, like, you know, Pete, for example,
he's from the 80s, and I can tell,
okay, I know exactly every phrase he says,
and I remember when we used to say those phrases,
but your kids weren't around then,
and they can still love it and enjoy it.
I love it because it's funny.
It's really well written.
There are some of those references that they don't get.
Same with Stranger Things.
Stranger Things is from the 80s,
and they don't get all the references,
but it's so funny.
They love the one that knew,
because they know Hamilton.
We all love the play Hamilton.
And the guy who knew Hamilton,
but it's like shocked that Hamilton's famous,
and so mad that he's not.
They thought he was so funny.
It's a great show.
That's cool that you're watching that now.
Yo, I watched that all the time.
I think it's great.
It's good writing, and it's very nostalgic,
because you do think of the different time periods,
and it's fun.
So clever.
Well, the reason we're talking about that
is we got a great question in our Q&A from Shelley.
Shout out to Shelley.
She was asking about the difference between C and Watch
and when to use each.
And this is tricky, because they are used differently
in other languages.
This is something that you can't translate directly.
You have to know how they're used in English.
But they're important words for connection, right?
I'm not bragging.
We talk about what we experience,
how we take in the world, what we witness,
which is a huge part of the human experience.
Now to mention what we're watching on TV,
I feel like this is a very common connection topic.
What shows are you watching?
Give me some recommendations.
Yeah, we even just connected in that question.
Look, moment there, about enjoying the same show,
and that makes you feel closer to someone, right?
Exactly.
But you do have to know the difference.
We couldn't say, what shows are you seeing on TV?
We use Watch there, so it's important,
if you want to be understood, to connect you
and to express yourself accurately
and use the correct verb here.
Yeah, there's quite a bit of nuance.
If you really dig in to see versus Watch,
there's some nuance.
So as bear with us today, let's get into it.
You can always listen again to these episodes
if you need to, but go ahead and hit the follow button
right here on All Erasing Lush.
This is where you want to be five days a week,
let our episodes drop right into your queue.
Okay?
Yes, absolutely.
So let's dive into see first, right?
This is about noticing something visually, right?
It just happens, you weren't necessarily trying
because for watching, there's effort there.
Seeing is usually passive, and it can be quick.
Yeah, I mean, you didn't just happen to see ghosts, right?
You weren't just watching TV and you saw a commercial come on.
No, you went and you figured out how to watch it,
how to get your kids in front of the TV together.
And that's a good point.
You use them both in the same sentence, right?
I was watching a show and I saw something out the window.
I saw a commercial come on, right?
That's when we use it for spontaneously
just talking about something we witnessed visually.
This is passive.
It can happen quickly flashes in front of us, right?
Right, there's no intention.
Maybe I didn't want to see it, but I couldn't help it.
Exactly, but it was a dog you do, right?
Did you see that cute dog, right?
There's a dog in the park, I don't see a parking spot.
And this is interesting because what would it be?
What would it mean if I said, did you watch that cute dog?
You could say that, but it means something else.
You could tell is that it means you saw the dog
and then you stopped and you had your eyes actually
followed the dog.
Yeah, you observed it.
Maybe you watched it play for a little while.
There's intention there, right?
Whereas C, it's just like quickly you saw a dog.
Yeah, best thing in the world is watching two dogs play together.
Yes, I agree.
Especially puppies are really energetic dogs
and they're like jumping around each other.
It's the best thing in the world.
So then also C can mean that you bumped into a person
unexpectedly and you saw them, right?
Yeah, so we use C this way.
Be like, oh, I saw your mom at the grocery store yesterday.
And that might mean that you just saw them
and that didn't talk to them.
It might mean you stopped and chatted with them
for a little bit because sometimes we'll use saw
when we mean like, oh, I saw them and we visited.
Yeah, you could have seen them from far away
and maybe you could approach them or you actually chatted.
Yeah.
C is also about ability.
I'll tell us about this.
Yeah, you might say, I can't see you without my glasses.
So here we're talking about this site,
one of our senses.
Are we able to see?
This reminds me of Lindsay.
Have you seen the movie Bird Box?
Yeah, I think I have.
That was probably a while ago, right?
It was soundable.
I watched it with my kids.
I'm like, I think they will actually like it.
They really like a thriller.
And oh, now I'm realizing I can't spy a spoil.
But for those of you who haven't watched it
and has a lot, the whole movie really has a lot to do
with seeing and what you see.
So people are like wearing blindfolds.
So highly recommend it.
No spoilers.
But that was a really intense movie, quite a thriller.
Yes, very intense.
And also we say we see someone for an appointment, right?
Like I'm going to see my doctor this week.
Doesn't mean you're going to see them from a distance.
That means you are meeting with them.
Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
So you've gotten an appointment.
You need to see a doctor, right?
You've had a pain in your knee.
It's time to go see a doctor, right?
Yeah, or someone might say that, right?
If you break your leg and you need to go to the hospital,
they might say, you need to see a doctor about this.
Which is interesting.
We're not actually saying see what we mean.
We're kind of using it in pneumatically
to say you need to visit a doctor.
You need to be seen by a doctor.
You need to have them look at this.
Schedule an appointment with a doctor.
Exactly.
Let's move over to the other side of Brinnell
and talk about watch.
So let's look at the nuance differences.
So watch is when you focus on something visually.
This is more intentional.
Like we said, we stop.
We see a dog, then we stop and we watch the dog.
Right.
Exactly.
It's intentional.
It's active.
There's time to it.
It might involve movement, right?
But that's definitely not just something that we passively do.
We happen to see something watching.
We're doing with intention.
Your eyes are literally moving with the thing.
He's watching the kids on the playground.
What else, Aubrey?
Could you say?
Watch the road when you're driving.
Right.
So because it's, I don't just see the road.
I could be like, oh, I see the road.
If I'm doing something actively, watching out for something, watching the road, there's
intention to that.
I'm focusing on what I'm looking at.
Or we watch the sunset together.
Yes.
Right.
You can also say we saw the sunset together, but what's the difference?
Yeah.
The difference is maybe you're on a walk.
You're not intending to see the sunset and just like, oh, we saw the sunset.
It was beautiful.
There's intention to we watch the sunset.
That probably means you stopped and watched it for a few minutes.
There's time to it.
There's focus to it.
Yeah.
Totally.
So I used to teach tennis as an assistant tennis pro and my boss, the head pro at the club
I watched that I taught at used to have a saying of his own.
So everyone in tennis says, watch the ball.
Watch the ball.
Watch the ball.
Right.
Yeah.
But his thing was see the ball.
Oh, interesting.
So he made it like a bigger thing.
And he, so he would just see the ball, see the ball.
So less about the mechanics of the eye moving towards the ball.
But more broadly seeing the ball.
So we can play with things that way too.
Definitely.
Especially in sports, I feel like we'll play with it that way, right?
And people will make jokes sometimes in volleyball.
Sometimes you'll be like, you'll warn someone that there's a tip or wherever you'd be like,
watch out or something.
Right.
And then you might make a joke that's like, I saw it happen, but I didn't do anything
about it.
Right.
Exactly.
Exactly.
So it's fun when we have these little jokes, these contrasts, we can really understand
the meanings.
Exactly.
Yeah.
And then we can see versus watch, we often use them in the same conversation in the same
sentences.
So for example, it'll do a couple of little manual plays here.
Did you see that gorgeous bird earlier?
Yeah.
I was watching it fly around the garden all morning.
So that's a very clear differentiator there.
We see the difference.
Exactly.
If that didn't happen, if it just flew past, you'd be like, oh, yeah, I saw it.
It was so pretty.
But if it's in your yard for a while and there's time and you stop to watch it, that's
when you do use watch.
Exactly.
Or what about this one?
Did you see that stop sign back there?
No.
I wasn't watching the road.
I'm so sorry.
Dangerous.
I'm definitely known for rolling through stop signs or kind of like, just not stopping
where you're supposed to stop first.
It happens.
And for sure happens.
But yeah, this is a good point where someone would be like, oh, did you not see that stop
sign?
Maybe like, I wasn't watching the road, right?
They're using these two of it because you wouldn't say I'm not seeing the road.
Clearly you're seeing it.
But we use watch in this way of also being careful.
Watch out.
Watch the road.
That's more like focus on what you're doing and be careful.
Yes, love it.
Starting your own business is a dream for so many people.
It's exciting, but it can be overwhelming.
I know because I've done it.
But Shopify makes it simpler.
All the tools you need to launch are already included and ready from day one.
Shopify's templates and AI tools get you a stunning site up and running fast.
No coding needed.
This means that you're free to create your brand in a way that reflects your company
and your values.
Shopify checkout means more customers actually buy and returning ones can do it in a single
click.
I remember so many long days and nights when I started all ears English trying to figure
out how to make my website work.
But Shopify's built in AI assistant sidekick is ready to help you build troubleshoot and
keep moving if questions come up.
All you need is the idea.
Shopify handles the rest.
Start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AE.
Again, start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AE.
One more time.
Get your free trial at s h o p i f y dot com slash AE.
All right, Aubrey, we are back from break.
So we've talked about the main differences between C and watch.
But then there are of course situations where you could use both.
All right.
Yeah.
So movies are a good example.
Someone might say, did you see that movie?
Did you watch that movie?
It means the same thing.
And it's interesting how sometimes they are interchangeable.
That's true.
Performance is would be another one.
Like a Broadway play or something.
Do you see the play?
Did you watch the play?
Really, it doesn't matter in this case.
Exactly sports events.
I saw a game.
I watched a game.
I went to a game.
These all mean the same thing.
Or online content.
Like did you see that meme on Instagram?
Right.
That's a really good point though.
Because we wouldn't say did you watch that meme if it's a picture.
If it's a still picture, we would only say did you see it?
If it's a video, a movie, something with time to it, then we'd say watch.
Did you watch that tip talk video?
Yeah.
Interesting.
It has to be like live action kind of.
Exactly.
It's just a picture or a meme.
Then we would say did you see it?
Did you see it?
That's a good differentiator there, Aubrey.
But the meaning is slightly different.
So let's go into this next piece here.
Yeah.
So when we're asking C, did you see the movie?
Did you see the show?
Did you attend it, experienced or noticed something?
And then watch is more about you stopped and paid attention.
So it's interesting how for some of these they are interchangeable.
But for a lot of life, we use one or the other.
Yeah.
Like for example last night, we saw a basketball game.
I went to a basketball game.
I saw a game.
But I didn't really watch the game to be honest.
Oh, that's fun.
You attended.
You didn't really pay attention.
No.
No.
So you're just sort of trying to read the New York Times on my phone.
That's so funny.
Yeah.
That's a good point.
Right?
So we would say like, oh, yeah, I saw the game.
I went to the game.
But if you say I watched the game, that means you were focused on it.
You weren't just on your phone the whole time.
Yeah.
Exactly.
Exactly.
Or see a movie.
So did you have the experience of attending the movie?
Right?
We saw a movie last Friday.
Really?
That just means we experienced it.
We attended.
But if someone says, did you watch that movie?
Like, I mean, you sat down and focused.
Did you pay attention to it?
Exactly.
So what's another sample sentence, Aubrey here?
Yeah.
So you could say, I saw Julia posted an Instagram story, but I haven't watched it yet.
And that's interesting because sometimes a story is a picture.
Then you would just say, I haven't seen it.
I haven't seen it.
But if it's a video, yeah, I haven't watched it.
Right.
And we could also insert that.
I saw that Julia posted an Instagram story.
I saw notice.
Here we're using C as notice something.
I noticed the fact that Julia posted a story.
I'm aware of it.
But I have this.
Actually, this is a really interesting note for a future episode because today in the
Q&A, a student asked, why do native speakers sometimes drop that?
And why do they leave it?
Why is sometimes it?
I saw that Julia posted or I saw Julia posted this.
We had a great discussion about it.
And I'm going to plan an episode.
So be sure to hit follow so you can get that episode in the future.
Love that idea.
Really looking forward to that episode.
So what can we not say, Aru, what's the not what not to do?
Yeah, we're giving some not to do.
So for example, she saw the TV show all night.
There's duration here, right?
There's time.
So you could only say watch.
She watched the TV show all night.
And also we watched the mountain.
Well, mountains don't move, right?
This, so it's a still object.
A mountain.
So to see a mountain, you can see a mountain.
Can't really watch a mountain because the mountain's not going anywhere.
It doesn't require that your eyes track it.
This is such a good point, right?
You could watch animals climbing up the mountain.
You can watch the sunset.
No falling is going to change.
Watch the snow fall.
But just something that a building a mountain, we wouldn't say we watch it.
We might watch for people to come out of it or climb it.
But if it's something stationary, we would say we see it.
I see the mountain.
I see the really really important nuance there.
Yeah, definitely.
Yeah.
Or you watch your friends at the store.
So don't say I watched my friends at the store.
It could have sounds like you're creepy and spying.
Right.
Sounds like you're stalking them, right?
We would say I saw, I saw my friends at the store.
I bumped into my friends at the store.
It's true.
This is such a good point.
We don't really say we watch people.
We can say like I watch the kids playing.
Yeah, because safety.
Right.
We watch my kids.
We watch my dog.
You're indicating safety.
That's more about supervision.
We will say like I watch someone that we're like supervising for safety.
But anyone else, we wouldn't say we watch them or it's weird.
That's weird.
Don't be weird.
Anyone you shouldn't be supervising for safety, you should not be watching.
Exactly.
All right.
So let's do a role play.
So you and I are on vacation in South Africa.
Ooh, I would love to go to South Africa.
Me too.
We're on a safari tour here, spotting wild animals.
OK.
Did you see those elephants near the trees?
As I saw them when they first, when we first drove up.
I've been watching the baby play in the mud.
He's so cute.
That's adorable.
Honestly, I could watch them all day.
Wait, do you see that grass moving?
It could be another animal.
Roosh.
Let's watch quietly so we don't scare it away.
Oh gosh.
That would be, that would be kind of intense.
Yeah, you're out there.
I'm like, I'm imagining myself from like a Jeep watching the animals.
I know.
They work on four.
They don't come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
They come for you.
Oh, seriously.
Yeah.
So these are some great examples.
So did you see those elephants near the trees?
So it's more passive.
Like, did you happen to see them?
Did they cross your field of vision?
They crossed your field of vision, exactly.
Right.
So then I'm saying like, oh yeah.
I saw them when we first drove up.
And now we're going to switch to watch because there was some time here you focused on
this baby.
I've been watching the baby play in the mud.
So now I'm focusing and I'm intentionally putting my eyes on the baby elephant.
How cute.
Oh my gosh.
Yes, right?
And this is interesting.
was playing in the mud. So it all sort of is how much you want to emphasize the time and focus.
Yep. How much of your energy is going to the subject? Exactly.
Right. And I said that's adorable. Honestly, I could watch them all day. Sorry, keepers making
them. I wanted to make an appearance on the podcast. Every once in a while, he likes to make an
appearance. Yeah. I could watch them all day. So that's also indicating more intention. Right?
Exactly. Right? You could not say I could see them all day because there's time.
This is something that whenever there's time, it's got to be watch. I could watch them all day.
Yes. And then I said, wait, do you see that grass moving? So I didn't ask, do you watch that
grass? That would be weird. Yeah. Why did I watch grass moving? But you're asking, did you notice it?
Did you see that grass moving again? More passive. Did you passively notice it?
Right. Exactly. And then I say, let's watch quietly so we don't scare it away. So now we're going to
watch for that movement. And because there's time there, we wouldn't you see, we'd use watch.
Yeah. So it seems like boiling it down, you know, just to get a final take away. I mean, it
seems like we're really looking at active versus passive a lot of times with these two. Right?
Exactly. Seeing as something that enters our vision, you know, happened as an experience and
then watch, it's more something we're focusing on intentionally. And there's usually time,
a duration of time. Yeah. But I do think, you know, just to keep in mind to finish up the
episode, guys, this is worth your time figuring out because again, like we said at the top of the
episode, it's about taking in the world, right? And then reporting back and interacting with people
in terms of what you're seeing, which is a huge connection skill. Absolutely. Yes. We talk about
this all the time, whether we're watching someone, what they watched on TV, or if we're
connecting about things we've seen in the world and observed, we use these verbs a lot to connect.
So it is worth the time to get them straight. Yes. Love it, guys. If you are looking for your next
next adventure with all those English right now, that could be episode 2573. Is this episode a
slap on the wrist? Go and check that out. And you will enjoy it. We guarantee it. Yes. Definitely
scroll up if you missed that one. And Lindsay, this is really fun. I'm excited for all of you to
connect about what you're watching. I know. I know. I recommend a new show to somebody. Spark that
conversation. Yes. Use what you've just learned. Yes. And you'll see it's immediately useful and you
could apply it to your own life right away. Okay. Absolutely. All right, I'll read talk soon. Bye.
See you next time. Bye. Bye.
Thanks for listening to all ears English. Would you like to know your English level?
Take our two-minute quiz. Go to all ears English.com forward slash fluency score. And if you believe
in connection, not perfection, then hit subscribe now to make sure you don't miss anything. See you next time.
Up to 4.2% APY on your cash. The high APY with Wellfront was a clear winner. There are no petty fees.
Every month there's this much that I'm getting an interest and I didn't have to do anything. My money
is working hard on its own and I can trust Wellfront is taking care of me.
Earn more on your uninvested cash with a Wellfront cash account. No account fees, no minimums,
and no strings attached. Get started today at Wealthfront.com. Clients were paid $1,000 for their
testimonials creating a conflict of interest. How come so? 3.3% they say PYS of January 30th,
2026 is representative, variable, and earned on funds swept to program banks.
0.65% new client boosts for three months on up to $150,000. Direct deposit $1,000 a month and
fund an investing account for a 0.25% increase. Cash account offered by Wellfront Brokage LLC,
member Phinra SIPC, not a bank. These and eligibility requirements may apply to certain
checking features of the cash account.