This is an All-Ears English Podcast, episode 2657.
What happened when you were about to leave?
Welcome to the All-Ears English Podcast
downloaded more than 200 million times.
Are you feeling stuck with your English?
We'll show you how to become fearless and fluent
by focusing on connection, not perfection.
With your American host, Michelle Kaplan,
the New York Radio Girl, and Aubrey Carter,
the Isles Wiz coming to you from Arizona
and New York City, USA.
To get real-time transcripts right on your phone
and create your personalized vocabulary list,
try the All-Ears English app for iOS and Android.
Start your seven-day free trial at allyoursenglish.com
forward slash app.
On today's episode, Aubrey and Michelle
answer a listener question about we were about to leave
and we went to leave.
What's the difference?
Find out today to make your stories much more engaging.
Have you ever met someone whose English wasn't perfect,
but they sounded incredibly fluent?
That's because fluency isn't about perfection.
It's about flow.
It's about expressing ideas clearly, responding naturally
and staying engaged in the conversation
and generally feeling connected.
If you're ready to move beyond accuracy
and into true fluency, start by finding your current level.
Take our free two-minute fluency quiz today.
Go to allyoursenglish.com slash fluency score.
That's allhearsenglish.com slash F-L-U-E-N.
C-Y-S-C-O-R-E.
Hello, Michelle. How are you?
Hi, Aubrey. I am doing well. How are you?
Well, I accidentally turned my A-Tattoo purple.
So you guys can see it's purple if you're looking on YouTube.
It was this beautiful brown henna.
But that's a great accident.
I mean, I love the purple.
It's a happy accident.
You remember Bob Ross?
That's what I like.
He'd mess up a tree.
He'd like a happy accident.
Yeah. It's a happy accident.
I like the purple. I think it's fun.
I do too. I do too.
But I do have a question for you.
OK, that's great.
Do you ever go to leave your house and then remember
or realize that you forgot something like maybe car keys
or wallet, purse, phone, whatever it may be?
Constantly.
Yesterday I went to leave and my car wouldn't start.
So I just realized I didn't have the keys in the car
because now it's a push start.
So if my keys are in my purse, it'll just start.
But I was like, I just got to go back inside
and get the keys.
That happens pretty much constantly.
What about you?
Yeah, of course.
Oh my gosh, especially with kids, like little kids,
then someone is asking, oh, I need a snack.
I realized I didn't bring this on television.
I didn't bring this.
I didn't bring that.
I forgot.
In fact, the reason my henna was fading
is because I kept forgetting to bring a long sleeve shirt.
And I was going to be outside playing volleyball
or pickle ball or something.
And if I could wear a long sleeve shirt,
it would be fine.
It's not supposed to be in direct sunlight.
But then when I went to leave, I didn't have the long sleeve.
And so it made my henna fade really fast, I'm sad.
Oh.
But I got touched.
I don't really thought they were black.
They were purple.
But you know what?
Happy accident.
Happy accident.
So this is interesting.
We say this a lot.
I went to leave or I always go to leave.
And this happens.
We got a great question on YouTube about this.
And this question comes to us from Sophia.
We absolutely love.
Send us amazing questions.
Thank you, Sophia.
Aubrey, would you read the question for us?
Absolutely.
And this might have actually been emailed in.
I didn't realize it was Sophia.
Hello, Sophia, shout out.
And thank you for all of your amazing questions.
She said, hi, Lindsay, Michelle, and Aubrey.
I was listening to your episode,
don't let English vocabulary break down on you.
And I had a quick question about one part.
Aubrey said, we went to leave and it wouldn't start.
It's the same thing.
We went to leave.
My car wouldn't start.
I'm a little confused about went to leave.
Does it basically mean we were about to leave?
Is there any difference between those two?
Thanks so much.
I love the show and learn a lot from you guys.
Best Sophia.
Always amazing questions.
I love this one.
You guys hear one thing in an episode.
You're like, why did they say it that way?
That makes for great follow up questions, follow up episodes.
Yes.
Send us your question.
That's a great way to do it.
You just listen to us and think, wait a second.
I thought it was said this way.
It's great.
Yes.
And you can send those to support at allersenglish.com
or comment them in your rating, your review,
also YouTube.
On our YouTube channel, channel Allers English,
you can comment on any video, a question
that we could cover on the podcast.
Yep.
And as always, guys, hit the follow button
wherever you're listening to allersenglish.
So you never miss anything from us.
So to answer Sophia's question, we went to leave is very similar
to we were about to leave.
They both describe the same time in a story
when you're about to leave somewhere.
And they can often be used interchangeably.
Right, exactly.
So I mean, Aubrey, when could we use these phrases?
So telling a personal story, you're
showing the sequence of events.
You're in the process of leaving when something unexpected
happens.
You're putting the audience in your shoes
and helping them experience it with you.
But they are a little bit different.
So let's first share about we went to leave.
How is this different, Michelle?
Yeah.
So we went to leave, focuses more on the attempt to leave.
OK, so we were trying to leave.
But it was stopped by something.
It also sounds slightly more casual or conversation
and a little bit like conversational.
Totally.
A conversational, yes.
And it sounds more like a story is unfolding.
So it's a little more engaging.
It might peak someone's curiosity a little more.
So this makes you a better storyteller, right?
You are pulling the listener in.
It's more engaging.
I do this a lot.
I'll switch to present tense.
And I'll use a phrase like this.
Both of those are strategies for making a story more
interesting, for making the listener
feel like they were there with you.
Yes.
So for example, Aubrey, it sounds like this has happened to you.
We went to leave and the car wouldn't start.
Uh-oh.
That's not bad.
And that might be because you forgot the keys.
It might be because the battery died, right?
But we went to leave.
Oh, no.
And we were stopped.
We were prevented in our attempt to leave by some.
Yes.
And that's never, never good.
So, or I went to leave, then I realized I had no idea
where I was going.
Yeah.
That, that, that, I do that all the time.
Yeah.
I'll start driving.
And I forget to put the address in the GPS.
Right.
And then driving.
I can't do it while I'm driving.
So then it'll stop light.
Because in Arizona, it's illegal to have your phone
in your hand at all while you're driving.
Even stopped at a stop light.
So I'm like watching to make sure a cop doesn't pull up next to me
while I'm trying to put the address in my GPS.
And my stop, I'm safe.
The car's not moving.
But I could still get a ticket.
So I have to be covered.
Oh.
Or she went to leave, but the door was locked for some reason.
Oh, that sounds a little scary.
Well, that's happened to me when I've locked myself out of my car.
It's like you think the car's unlocked so you go to leave.
And then the car's locked.
And you're like, so luckily, hopefully that's happening to you
when you're home.
And you just go find the keys and unlock the car.
But it says, I'm sure all of our listeners, this often,
especially with older cars that'll happen where you,
you know, I went to leave.
And I, the door was locked and I couldn't get into my car.
Right.
I have to call a locksmith that come and break into your car for you.
Yeah.
I think I'm thinking of it in a scarier way.
Like she went to leave, she, I'm thinking of you're already
inside some place.
Oh, you're thinking you got abducted.
Yeah.
Like I got you in a basement, Michelle.
That went dark really fast.
I don't know.
I don't know.
No, okay.
I wasn't.
No, I don't know.
Yeah.
I'm thinking of like a scary movie.
A scary movie.
Oh, great.
Yeah.
Woo.
And if you are in that situation, but it could happen,
be ready, make sure no one locks you in anywhere.
Yeah, exactly.
But if they do, you can say, you can use this English.
All right.
That's not fun.
All right.
That's not fun.
And I was locked in.
Okay.
So we were about to leave.
This is a little different.
We do use these, but it's slight.
It's a nuance.
And the timing, something happened just before leaving.
It does.
It's more neutral.
It's a very subtle difference.
This is slightly less vivid.
It's still good for storytelling, but it doesn't necessarily mean that you were prevented
that something happened that stopped you from leaving.
It's like we were about to leave and we realized something, something, right?
You weren't really prevented.
Just something happened as you were about to leave.
Right.
So for example, we were about to leave when it started raining.
So I'm thinking I was with my kids once in the car.
We were trying to meet my husband at this event, but it was a terrible storm.
And I kept on checking the forecast on my phone and I would say rain continuing for 10 minutes.
And so I'd say, okay, and let's just wait for 10 minutes.
And then, you know, you get to seven minutes and I would say for 18 minutes, the rain is
continuing.
And it just kind of like, right?
And we never, we, and then there was one time where I thought,
okay, it's done.
And so we were about to leave when it started raining.
So then it just started again and we never made it.
That's so funny.
We're not going, we're not going.
It's raining.
No, it's, yeah, or it sounds like we're about to leave, but my boss called me over.
So maybe you're about to leave work.
But then your boss is like, I just need to talk to you really quickly and two hours later.
No, probably you would be a quick conversation and then you'd be able to go.
Mm-hmm.
Or they were about to leave when they realized they forgot their passports.
Oh, I'm glad you realized before they left.
Exactly.
Exactly.
You don't want to realize that at the gate, at the security when you go to show your passport
to the security agent.
How far do you live from the airport, Aubrey?
30 minutes, a 30 minute drive depending on traffic.
I'm about to say over an hour depending on traffic.
Yeah.
So you don't want to have to, I mean, every minute counts.
Right.
You miss a flight.
Yeah.
Oh, no, fine.
Passports.
Double check the passports before you leave that.
So, yes.
Starting your own business is a dream for so many people.
It's exciting, but it can be overwhelming.
I know because I've done it.
But Shopify makes it simpler.
All the tools you need to launch are already included and ready from day one.
Shopify's templates and AI tools get you a stunning site up and running fast.
No coding needed.
This means that you're free to create your brand in a way that reflects your company and
your values.
Shopify checkout means more customers actually buy and returning ones can do it in a single
click.
I remember so many long days and nights when I started all ears English trying to figure
out how to make my website work.
But Shopify's built-in AI assistant sidekick is ready to help you build, troubleshoot,
and keep moving if questions come up.
All you need is the idea.
Shopify handles the rest.
Start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AE.
Again, start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AE.
One more time.
Get your free trial at SHOPIFY.com slash AE.
All right.
These phrases don't only have to be about leaving to go somewhere.
They can be about any action that was about to happen or got interrupted.
So went to I went to call you, but my phone died.
He went to take a sip of my coffee and it spilled all over my shirt or we went to unlock
the door and the key snapped in half.
That has happened to me before.
It's terrible.
Really?
Yeah.
You can't get the little piece of metal out of the key.
You have to replace the lock.
The worst.
Oh, and that's expensive.
So and then there's was or were about to.
So I was about to text you when you called.
That can happen a lot.
You know, and it's like, oh, we were thinking of each other, right?
Or I was about to fall asleep when my phone started ringing nonstop.
That's that's the one I wanted.
Yeah.
Stop calling me.
Yes.
Or she was about to cook dinner when the power went out.
Ooh, that's no good.
No, right.
I guess we're going out to eat kids.
I actually would be that sad.
I'd have like, oh, darn, the power's out.
Let's go get pizza.
Yeah, right.
And now you I know you can get your pizza for the first exactly.
Right.
So we have it.
You guys haven't heard this.
My daughter won three pizza for a year.
And we have been taking advantage.
Every week we go and pick up our pizza.
They know.
That's my name.
They're so cute.
Her name's Georgia, but she goes by Gigi.
And when she goes in, everyone there is like, Gigi, what's up?
And if anyone's like a new employee, they're like, this is Gigi's art on the wall.
They like show the art that won her free pizza for a year.
She's like a celebrity there.
It is so fun.
That is really fun.
So, all right.
Let's do a role play.
So here we are friends and I called you to chat.
All right.
Hey, I was just about to call you.
Oh, well, looks like I beat you to it.
How's your morning going?
Stressful.
I was about to leave the house and I couldn't find my keys anywhere.
Oh, no.
I hate when that happens.
What did you do?
Well, I went to call my mom for the replacement, but as the phone was ringing, I found them
in my jacket pocket.
Classic.
That happens to me all the time.
Yeah, but it didn't end there.
When I finally went to leave, the car wouldn't start.
Seriously, that's terrible.
Yeah, I ended up calling AAA and getting a jump start.
Mmm.
And this is interesting.
The one thing I had here, well, I went to call my mom for the replacement.
But I would say, I would call it, if I had to go to the dealership and get a new one
made, I would call that a replacement.
But if my mom has an extra set of keys, I would say, well, I went to call my mom for
her set of keys or for a spare key is what I would say instead of a replacement.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Good point.
Good point.
But let's go through this roleplay.
We used a bunch of these here.
I first said, hey, I was just about to call you.
Does that ever happen, Michelle, when you call someone and they're like, I was just
about to call you or I was just texting you.
I was just typing a text to you.
That happens to me a lot.
Yeah, I would say maybe mostly with my mom, but there are definitely friends who that
happens with.
But then it would probably more so be a text message.
I was just about to text you.
Yeah, for sure, because we don't call that much anymore, same.
Yeah.
And then I said, no, no, no.
I asked you, how is your morning going?
And you said stressful.
I was about to leave the house and I couldn't find my keys anywhere.
Uh-oh.
I know.
What is the weirdest place you have found your keys?
Mine were in the fridge once.
I couldn't find them anywhere.
I think I had grabbed.
I don't know.
Something out of the fridge and accidentally set them in there.
Which is definitely found weird things in the fridge before.
I don't know if like a kid's toy.
They like go to grabs up.
Yeah, exactly.
Exactly.
I remember when my son was really little.
He got this little car he was absolutely obsessed with because you know how it goes.
As they are kids.
So fun car.
Oh, yeah.
So and then I remember we couldn't find it.
We couldn't find it anywhere.
And then my mom was visiting.
And of course my mom is the one who ends up helping.
It was just in an oven mitt.
In an oven mitt.
Like in the drawer where you put the oven mitt.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And then inside the actual mitt.
Yes, that's really funny.
But your mom found it when she went to cook or something.
Yeah, I guess so.
And then I made a rule.
I remember like I would say that I don't want my kids to have any toys that are smaller
than the palm of my hand.
You know, just like only bigger toys that I can see.
Nothing too hard with it in an oven mitt.
Yes, exactly.
Exactly.
That's so funny.
Okay.
So then you said, yeah, I went to call my mom and I'd say for the spare key.
I went to call my mom for her spare key.
And then you said that, yeah.
And then when I finally went to leave, the car wouldn't start.
So yeah, this is really interesting.
These are subtly different.
It's really about whether you were stopped in being able to leave or not or if something
was just happening as you were leaving.
Yeah, definitely.
So really interesting stuff there.
Guys, head on over to episode 2653.
That was when fishy and cheesy aren't about food.
That was so funny.
That was so funny.
Yeah, we had a good time with that one.
And there we had, it was a two part series with all of these words, fishy, cheesy, nutty,
all these words that seem like we would be about food, but they're idioms and we use
them in these other ways.
So go check that out if you missed it.
Super fun.
All right, guys.
Well, thank you so much for listening today.
Thank you again to Sophia for that question and we'll see you on the next episode.
Yes, you guys next time.
Bye.
Bye.
Thanks for listening to all ears English.
Would you like to know your English level?
Take our two minute quiz.
Go to all earsenglish.com forward slash fluency score.
And if you believe in connection, not perfection, then hit subscribe now to make sure you don't
miss anything.
See you next time.