This is an All-Ears English Podcast episode 2655.
Are you slammed with work? How to talk about it?
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
Welcome to the All-Ears English Podcast!
Downloaded more than 200 million times!
Are you feeling stuck with your English?
We'll show you how to become fearless and fluent
by focusing on connection, not perfection.
With your American hosts, Lindsay McMahon, the English adventurer,
and Michelle Kaplan, the New York Radio Girl.
Coming to you from Colorado and New York City, USA.
To get real-time transcripts right on your phone
and create your personalized vocabulary list,
try the All-Ears English app for iOS and Android.
Start your seven-day free trial at allyoursenglish.com,
forward slash app.
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
Do you ever need a good way to say that you have a lot of work?
Today, get ways to say that something is happening to you
that is out of your control in English.
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
Have you ever met someone whose English wasn't perfect,
but they sounded incredibly fluent?
That's because fluency isn't about perfection.
It's about flow.
It's about expressing ideas clearly,
responding naturally, and staying engaged in the conversation,
and generally feeling connected.
If you're ready to move beyond accuracy and into true fluency,
start by finding your current level.
Take our free two-minute fluency quiz today.
Go to allyoursenglish.com slash fluency score.
That's allhearsenglish.com slash F-L-U-E-N-C-Y-S-C-O-R-E.
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
[♪ INTRO MUSIC PLAYING [♪
Hey, Michelle. How's it going?
Hey, good. Lindsay, Lindsay, how was this past winter for you?
Oh my gosh. Are you kidding me? It's been easy.
It's been summer.
It's been a California winter over here.
Nothing like what you've been dealing with.
Yeah, there's some reason we never, we never got any snow.
We never got any cold weather.
I mean, right now, this is coming out in the summer.
So we're talking about this late.
We're talking about an easy winter over here in Colorado,
but you over there on the east coast got slammed, right?
We got slammed with snow this year.
It was crazy.
And then like, one of the snowstorms,
it wasn't, there was a lot of snow,
but the good thing was it was getting slightly warmer.
So the snow melted fairly quickly,
but the fur, like one of the other ones, it was so cold
that it just wasn't melting.
And it was just, I mean, for like a couple of weeks,
it was just like still just ice.
Oh yeah.
It was crazy. So we got slammed for sure.
You got slammed.
Yeah. Yeah.
So, but today we're going to share three verbs
that you can use to talk about things
that impacted you in a big way.
So edit, they can be sometimes sudden.
So this is going to be a really interesting one.
But before we get to it, we just really want to thank our reviewers.
Yeah, guys, we have an app for allers English
at allersenglish.com slash app.
It's a great way to listen without any ads
in the coming into the show and a great way
to see live transcripts that have been proofed by a human proofreader.
So you know, they are correct.
Also a great way to save key words.
But I want to say a huge thank you to Lee Huang
who left us a review in the Google Play Store
for the Android app.
So guys, go check out the app and be sure
to leave us a rating and review when you hear,
when you get a chance.
Let us know what you think about the app
and allersenglish in general.
Okay.
Definitely.
All right. Love it.
So let's go through it.
So a slammed, right?
That's the one we already used.
So Lindsay, what is it mean to be slammed?
Yeah, I like saying this.
It means something hits you in a forceful, hard way.
And it's kind of diverse the situations we could use here.
At the top of the show, we talked about a blizzard, a snowstorm.
Maybe a hurricane comes through and you get slammed by a hurricane.
Reminds me of where my parents' beach house is,
was we sold it, but they live on the harbor south of Boston.
And it's this little cove which is super exposed to the open ocean.
And so every time there's a storm in New England,
that's where the reporter goes.
And they stand at the very end of the lighthouse
that's just jetting out into the ocean.
And they're there and they're like swaying in the wind.
And I'm in situat Masatussins.
And oh my god, there goes my hat.
And like, oh my god, this house is going to get carried into the ocean.
It is so crazy.
Oh my gosh.
Oh my god.
It's like where are the target?
And there's always a massive flooding.
So that house always got slammed with hurricanes, snowstorms,
and the winter there are really bad.
Yeah, it was crazy.
That's why we sound like it.
Sounds like it.
So but yeah, you can get slammed with anything.
Like other things too, right?
Like an expensive ticket, right?
Maybe you got a speeding ticket, any kind of line or fee,
right, getting slammed.
It's like an expense comes to you.
So you wouldn't say that if you just went and chose to buy an expensive car
because you chose it.
So you're kind of, it's a bit of a victim thing, right?
Right.
Yes, exactly.
You're on the receiving end.
Yes, exactly.
Or not, whatever it is.
Right.
Or it could also be like your workload or emails.
Like I got slammed with 50 emails and I'm getting working through all of them, right?
It's always Monday morning.
I'm always slammed when I try to get into my inbox.
I just slammed with emails.
But then for some reason, like they all come at the same time.
It's either nothing through the week or it's tons at the same time.
Everything comes through right at the same, in the same couple of hours.
It's weird.
Yeah.
How that works.
Yeah.
Yeah.
For sure.
And what about criticism?
I mean, a politician could get slammed with criticism.
Maybe there's some kind of story that comes out, right?
Yeah.
Or maybe, I mean, if you've had some sort of, I mean, or maybe you gave a presentation
and you got slammed with questions and critiques, you know, by the audience.
So, but let's do a few more examples of each of these.
So the first one is we were slammed by a huge blizzard last weekend.
So that's the weather.
I'm slammed with work this afternoon, right?
Maybe someone calls to invite you out for an early happy hour or something.
You say, I'm sorry.
I'm slammed with work this afternoon, right?
Or I was slammed with a ton of negative reviews after my head waitress quit.
Mm-hmm.
Yes.
All right.
Yeah.
So.
Sometimes we say we were slammed with and sometimes we say we were slammed by.
You know, basically, I would say slammed with, and this is, you know, very general.
We can kind of follow up on this one day.
But for with, I would say, like, it's often with, I was slammed with work.
Yeah.
I was slammed with like the quantity of something.
I was slammed with emails.
We were slammed with negative reviews.
I would say slammed by would be more like the snowstorm, right?
Yeah.
You could say, yeah, I would say so that makes sense.
Like a slammed by a gust of wind or slammed by a huge snowstorm.
This winter and you got a ton of them as we said before.
So yeah, you have two preposition options to use.
I would say I hear with more often personally, but yeah, just depends.
Let's just go through the rest of the episode and see what comes up the most, right?
Yeah.
So we can always talk more about that another day.
So there's hit is the second verb.
So hit is also forceful, but it could be emotions as well.
So that's really interesting.
So what what what what what might we be hit with?
Hit by in the simplest way.
You could also be hit by a blizzard, right?
A snowstorm, a thunderstorm, any kind of element, the elements by a gust of wind, wind
is the worst out here.
Like it's really windy in certain parts of Colorado, like scary windy.
You know, and it's like sometimes wind can feel scary.
Just feels very out of control, you know?
Yeah.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Oh, for sure.
Or with some sort of emotion or, you know, more like a like a something that's not tangible,
right?
Like hit with the truth, a realization, the reality.
Hit with sadness, right?
Hit with a wave of sadness, right?
Yeah.
So and again, the key theme here is something's happening to you.
Something's happening to you.
Something's happening to you.
Something's happening to you.
You're not creating this.
You're not seeking it out.
You're not purchasing this, right?
It's coming to you.
Right.
You're hit with an issue or a problem, maybe a fine or a setback.
We were hit with a few setbacks this year, but we're going to keep y'all pushing through.
Right?
Yep.
Exactly.
So here are some more examples.
So we were hit by a terrible thunderstorm or she hit me with the truth, right?
So we don't mean physically punched you, right?
We mean she told you the truth.
This is a creative way to say she told me the truth.
In her, but I needed to hear it.
Right.
So when you say it, like, I she told me the truth sounds so much different than she hit
me with the truth.
It really sounds more sudden.
Yes.
I really like that.
Yeah.
Intense.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or the basketball players were hit with huge fines after the fight in the third quarter.
There are other fancier ways we could say this, like they were assessed a huge fine, but
we're not looking for a formal way to say this today.
We're looking for a way to emphasize that that came to them, right?
Yes.
Yes.
Exactly.
And again, guys, we have different positions we have with.
We have by.
I mean, notice we used by with the with the thunderstorm.
I let more likely to say, oh, we were hit by a thunderstorm.
Then we were hit with a thunderstorm.
Yeah.
Yeah.
That's just me.
Yeah.
I think you're probably right.
I think I probably do the same thing.
Yeah.
All right.
So we're going to take a quick break and come back to a few more ways to say this because this
is important to emphasize the direction from which something is coming, right?
Yes.
Exactly.
It's not originating with you.
It's coming to you.
Okay.
Yes.
Starting your own business is a dream for so many people.
It's exciting, but it can be overwhelming.
I know because I've done it.
But Shopify makes it simpler.
All the tools you need to launch are already included and ready from day one.
Shopify's templates and AI tools get you a stunning site up and running fast.
No coding needed.
This means that you're free to create your brand in a way that reflects your company and
your values.
Shopify checkout means more customers actually buy and returning ones can do it in a single
click.
I remember so many long days and nights when I started all ears English, trying to figure
out how to make my website work.
But Shopify's built in AI assistance sidekick is ready to help you build, troubleshoot and
keep moving if questions come up.
All you need is the idea.
Shopify handles the rest.
Start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AE.
Again, start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AE.
One more time.
Get your free trial at s-h-o-p-i-f-y.com slash AE.
Okay, Michelle.
So struck is another forceful dramatic way of saying that something happened to you.
Right?
Yeah.
When it comes to leather, we could be struck by lightning.
We could be, I guess struck by, do we say struck by an earthquake?
Yeah.
I think we say Los Angeles, I think.
I think we say life in earthquake today, I suppose.
Yeah.
But struck by lightning is certainly the most common.
Yeah, struck by lightning super common.
Yeah.
I mean, do we say struck by a snow storm?
I don't think very much.
No, I really don't think we do.
Yeah.
I would stay with hit or, or which is the other way.
I feel like we say just slam to New England, like we got a snow storm.
We got a big snow storm slam.
We had a snow storm.
Right.
Right.
But there's also an emotion, which is this is really common.
Struck with anger, struck with sadness, story, you could say struck by sadness, right?
Yeah.
So that's a very common one.
Yeah.
And that means again, that just kind of arose within you.
Right?
Yeah.
And again, that's why you're not necessarily creating it.
You're not saying I'm going to be sad now.
It just came up inside you spontaneously.
Right?
Exactly.
Or the family was struck by tragedy.
You know, we could say that.
Yeah.
Something like that.
Sort of issue.
Yeah.
Yep.
So here's a few more examples.
So be careful out there.
You don't want to get struck by lightning.
Or I was struck with sadness when he broke up with me.
Struck with sadness.
Yeah.
Yeah.
Or their family was struck by tragedy, but they overcame it.
They overcame it.
Yeah.
And again, here, by seems to be the most common.
And with comes up more often with emotions.
Right?
Yeah.
But this is all kind of fluid.
And again, like I said, we can do a more strict follow-up explaining all of the prepositions
and seeing, but we're giving you some just basic ideas today.
So yeah, so we did.
Today we've covered struck, hit and slammed.
Yes.
So should we do a roleplay?
I would love to do a roleplay, Michelle.
Let's do it.
So here we are friends catching up after a long winter.
We haven't seen each other all winter, I guess.
We're coming up.
We're having a nation here or something.
Oh my gosh.
That's how it feels.
So how have you been?
Yeah.
Oh, I'm fine, but I'm so ready for spring.
We were slammed by snowstorms all winter.
Ooh, I heard.
We were hit by a pretty bad thunderstorm last month, but we were okay.
That's good.
So how are you?
I'm good, but I was hit with a nasty fine because I forgot to pay a parking ticket.
Oh no.
Yeah, no good.
And I've been slammed by work this week, so I'm so exhausted.
I hope you can relax this weekend.
I was really struck by sadness when I heard Tom is moving.
Struck by sadness or struck with sadness?
Struck with sadness.
Yeah, that feels more right.
I was struck with sadness.
Yeah, I know.
I was, I said it in a sounded weird.
I was struck with sadness.
Thank you.
When I heard that Tom was moving.
Yeah, exactly.
Struck with, because we talked about it struck with, more coming with emotions.
Yeah, I was struck with, yes.
Yeah, exactly.
So we were slammed by snowstorms all winter.
That's how we started the show and that actually is true for you, right?
Yes.
And then you said, I was hit with a nasty fine.
Yes, exactly.
And then also I said, we were hit by a pretty bad thunderstorm.
And we said, by, for a preposition, it's more common with these natural nature events,
right?
These natural disasters.
Okay.
Yeah.
And then you said, sorry, which now we're on the work one.
I said, no.
I've been slammed by work this week.
Yes, that's what I thought.
Yeah.
And then I said, I was struck with sadness.
This sounded a little bit too, like I don't know that I would say that.
Yeah.
Yeah, yeah.
This is pretty formal.
So to be it just like, oh, I was struck, you know, by sadness.
I might not say that, but we wanted to give you an example.
Yeah.
And then we wanted to revisit this term, struck with, struck by.
Yeah.
We also say I was struck by the fact that something seemed obvious.
So there is a place for struck by.
Absolutely.
Right.
So it's like for like kind of like if you're struck by a situation almost like I was struck
by how wonderful the movie's music was.
Yeah.
Maybe we'll do another episode on like emotions, spontaneous emotions arising or something.
Something like that.
Sponsored or also insights.
So sometimes it's about emotions.
Sometimes it's about insights.
Right.
What struck me was, we'll come back to that guys another day.
We'll come back to it.
And also I want to emphasize that sometimes you can just say, you know, I'm really slammed
this week.
You don't have to say you're slammed.
Like what is causing you to be slammed with.
Yeah.
You're just slammed.
Right.
Right.
I'm totally.
Yeah.
So guys, head on over.
We did all there's English episode 26, 24.
That was how to talk about housing costs without sounding rude.
Exactly.
Good stuff.
So the connection moment here guys is, well, I think we're talking about overwhelm in
a way.
Some of these are useful for overwhelm or things we can't control.
Like things that are just out of our control.
And it's important that you emphasize this.
It's a kind of a nuance here of the words you choose show where the thing is originating.
Is it originating with you?
Are you creating it or is it coming to you?
That changes the whole meaning.
Right.
It's really interesting.
Yeah.
And guys, again, don't, don't if you're stressed out by the prepositions.
Yeah.
Don't be.
You know, like we can talk more about them, give you some more overall rules.
But today we really wanted to focus on just, you know, the meaning and how it's used
and how it can help you connect.
So yeah, guys, definitely hit follow.
We can do a follow up.
If you have any questions, let us know.
Yeah.
And send those questions to support at allersenglish.com.
We will create a follow up episode based on your question if it's a good specific question.
All right.
All right.
Very good.
Michelle, you have a good day.
Talk to you soon.
All right.
Thanks for listening to all ears English.
Would you like to know your English level?
Take our two minute quiz.
Go to allersenglish.com forward slash fluency score.
And if you believe in connection, not perfection, then hit subscribe now to make sure you don't
miss anything.
See you next time.
Summer is here and Ralph's is your destination for hot savings.
Find unique items at low prices with our exclusive brands.
Fire up the grill with cook out classics like burgers and don't forget delicious produce
like fresh melons or treat yourself to summer's sweetest lineup with Kroger brands limited
edition all American ice cream collection.
Whatever your summer plans, Ralph's makes it easy to enjoy high quality food at affordable
prices.
And Ralph's serving so cal for over 150 years.
Imagine if this stability piece and the innovation piece were each other's missing
piece.
First citizens bank and Silicon Valley bank are combining financial security and innovation
expertise to create a full suite of solutions for all your business needs.
With the scale to back every stage of growth from pre-seed to IPO and beyond, you have everything
you need to make your big ideas click into place.
First citizens bank and Silicon Valley bank.
That's the best of bank worlds.