This is an All-Ears English Podcast Episode 2654.
Do you love it or hate it?
Welcome to the All-Ears English Podcast
downloaded more than 200 million times.
Are you feeling stuck with your English?
We'll show you how to become fearless and fluent
by focusing on connection, not perfection.
With your American host, Michelle Kaplan,
the New York Radio Girl, and Aubrey Carter, the Isles Wiz,
coming to you from Arizona and New York City, USA.
And to get your transcripts delivered by email every week,
go to allhearsenglish.com forward slash subscribe.
On today's episode, Aubrey and Michelle, talk about the expressions I don't love it,
and I don't hate it. These may not mean exactly what you think,
depending on context and intonation.
Learn more today so you can use these in your everyday conversations.
Have you ever met someone whose English wasn't perfect,
but they sounded incredibly fluent?
That's because fluency isn't about perfection.
It's about flow.
It's about expressing ideas clearly, responding naturally,
and staying engaged in the conversation,
and generally feeling connected.
If you're ready to move beyond accuracy and into true fluency,
start by finding your current level.
Take our free two-minute fluency quiz today.
Go to allhearsenglish.com slash fluency score.
That's allhearsenglish.com slash F-L-U-E-N-C-Y-S-C.
O-R-E.
Hello, Michelle. How are things?
Things are good, Aubrey. How are you?
I'm great. Question for you.
Do you allow eating in any room of your house or are some rooms off limits?
Wow. That's a good question.
I don't think that I have like an actual strict rule about it.
I think Dan is better at trying to get the kids to not eat in certain places.
But I have been known to eat a meal in bed.
That's my favorite thing to do.
Don't tell anyone, but I would never have my kids do that.
No, absolutely.
This is pretty strict in our home, but same as you,
it's my husband who is much more strict about it.
Like no food upstairs at all.
Kitchen only kitchen or outside.
Take your popsicle out to the backyard.
But not anywhere else.
Do the kids listen?
Do the kids do that?
Absolutely not.
They have food and snacks hidden in their rooms.
They're constantly getting after them.
I don't eat in the bed very often, but every now and then I will.
It's like an emergency situation.
Emergency.
Emergency. I have my glass of wine next to the bed.
And I'm like, that's an emergency.
That's fine.
Yes, exactly.
So today we are going to talk about a fun,
yet lightweight to say that you don't like something.
And we're talking about this because I heard Dan say this
in the context of what we're talking about.
So the story is my kids were eating something with honey.
I forget what it was.
And it was, they were on the couch over the carpet.
And he said, I don't love honey on the carpet.
That is amazing.
I see this a lot.
And my husband does too, right?
And what we really mean is you should not be eating on the carpet.
You should not be eating while sitting on the couch
because what we're saying is I don't want you to get honey
on the couch or on the carpet.
So I don't want you to be eating honey over there.
And this is how we say it.
Sometimes we'll say like, I don't love the idea of honey on the carpet
or I don't love honey on the carpet.
Totally.
Yeah.
And I wrote it down because it just made me laugh.
And it's very natural.
And it's a common way to say you don't want something.
You don't want something to happen.
Like don't do something.
Absolutely.
Yeah.
So this is going to be fun.
So first of all, guys, we want to remind you
to hit the follow button or subscribe on YouTube
wherever you are listening to listening to
or watching the all-using live podcast.
So you never miss anything.
And also, Aubrey, we want to say thank you so much
to our listeners who have written reviews for us.
Yes.
Exactly.
We're going to shout out a couple of your names now
from Apple Podcasts Annie in China and Cirque Selroestem.
Thank you so much for your reviews, your ratings,
everyone who leaves a review wherever that is.
Spotify, Android, Apple, in the app, on YouTube,
all of these comments and ratings and reviews.
We love them.
We read them.
They really help us have the motivation
to keep going to plan these great episodes for you.
Absolutely.
So if you have a new review, please do so.
We really do read them.
We send them around to each other.
Makes our days.
So all right.
So let's get into it.
So this construction is I don't love X.
I don't love something.
For example, I don't love staying up past 11.
That's true for me, except I could say I don't love staying up past 9.
Yeah.
I'm tired because I'm up so early.
So I'm tired really, really going to bro.
Yeah.
Or I don't love the redecorating done in this room.
Right?
So I don't love it.
Don't say that to someone who did the redecorating.
No, no, no, no.
I don't love this combination of salty and sweet.
So this is a kind of a positive spin
when you're in a restaurant, for example.
And what you mean is I don't like this,
but you're trying to be positive.
You're trying not to say something rude.
This is a nicer way to say that.
I don't love this.
Right, right.
Exactly.
So yeah, I mean, you answered my question.
I was going to say how does that sound to you.
It does sound like you're trying to be a little bit softer.
You're not trying to be too blunt.
And you might get more details after.
You might be like, I don't love it, but I've had worse.
Right. Exactly.
Yeah.
So to me, it sounds very light.
And even though you may not love it, you may not hate it.
Right. It just depends on the context and the tone.
So for example, say this if you did hate it,
you'd say something else.
You'd be like, it's not my favorite.
Or something like that.
Right.
Right.
Right. Exactly.
So here's an example.
I don't love this color, but I think we should go with it for now.
So maybe you need to make a decision for a presentation
or whatever it is.
And you're saying, okay, well, we need to just
get this done.
So I don't love it, but let's just go with it.
I probably said this about the color we painted our house
because we wanted to go really light, like almost white.
But we had to choose from HOA colors, like pre-approved colors.
Oh.
And none of them were very light.
And we were so frustrated.
And they find you if you don't choose one of their colors.
So we chose the lightest one they had,
which was not as light as we wanted.
And we'd be like, I don't love this.
But we're just going to have to go with it.
Because we have no other option.
Right.
Yeah.
Yeah, that's a perfect example.
Or Aubrey, you were talking about wine in bed.
You could say, I don't love this wine with this dish,
but I see why they put them together.
Oh, yeah, because sometimes there will be a suggested pairing.
And you'll be like, it's not what I would have chosen,
but I can kind of get it.
Right.
Like I understand it, right?
For me, I don't know about you, Michelle,
but I'm like, every color in a Sauvignon,
give me a cab Sauv.
I'm going to love it.
I don't think I've ever had a cab Sauv.
I didn't like, I love that.
I like Malbec.
Oh, Malbec's good too.
Yes, I mean, everyone has their favorites,
but in general, I even like the $4 one at Trader Joe's.
Give me delicious.
That's a funny.
So this could actually, though, also sound a bit more serious
or even use to reprimand someone or give rules.
Like, Dan and the Honey.
Like, I don't love Honey on the carpet.
Like, we're not, you know, doing this.
What you really mean is don't eat Honey on the carpet.
The don't do it.
Exactly.
Right.
Right.
So I don't love where this conversation is going right now.
So it's like, you can tell things are maybe getting a little bit more
argumentative with someone.
The things are coming up.
And so you might say, I don't love where this is going right now.
Like, maybe we should just talk about something else.
And this is really interesting.
It is a little bit loaded.
If you are wanting to pivot to something else, we've talked about on the podcast,
ways to do that, ways to change the subject.
And this is one way to do that.
But there is an implication here of criticizing the other person.
You are telling them something they just said or the way they're handling the conversation,
the way they're reacting to you are not listening to you.
You don't love.
And so you are letting them know that in a kind way before pivoting away.
And so when you say this, you're intentionally giving them that message.
Like, I don't like the way you've been handling this.
So let's talk about something.
Then you're going to change the subject.
But you want that message to be clear.
And that's when we would say this.
Yeah.
Yeah, exactly.
Or what's another example already?
Then you might say, I don't love how you've been ignoring some of my emails.
So this could be a coworker that is not responding to a lot of your emails.
And you're trying to figure out a way to say it a little bit playfully,
but also let them know like, you need to read my emails and respond.
Yeah.
Yeah, be careful with this one to a coworker.
Or you know, it would have to be like, I would say this to you, Michelle, maybe.
Exactly.
And you're responding to some of your emails.
Some of your clothes with you can be truthful with.
That's well playful, right?
I'd be like, so I should play full with.
Exactly.
I don't love the way you're ignoring all of my emails.
But I also, I don't even know if I would do that because I would know,
there's probably a reason you're super busy and there's still implied criticism there.
So I would probably still be like, did you happen to see my last email?
Right, right, right, exactly.
Yeah, because this doesn't choke care really.
Like you do need to be careful.
This is maybe more if you have already tried to be careful.
And now you need to be more clear.
But you're still trying to use language that is kind and polite.
This would work.
Yeah, yeah, really interesting.
And you also might just hear people say, I don't love it.
Right. So for example, let's do this little role play.
What do you think of the new roller coaster they added?
I don't love it.
Yeah, this is probably going to share more details because if you just stop there,
it's like, it feels a little brusque.
But then if you're like, I got sick honestly, we were upside down way too long.
You would probably give details about why you didn't love it.
Exactly.
All right.
So we are going to go over the opposite.
And just a minute after the break.
All right.
Starting your own business is a dream for so many people.
It's exciting, but it can be overwhelming.
I know because I've done it.
But Shopify makes it simpler.
All the tools you need to launch are already included and ready from day one.
Shopify's templates and AI tools get you a stunning site up and running fast.
No coding needed.
This means that you're free to create your brand in a way that reflects your company
and your values.
Shopify checkout means more customers actually buy and returning ones can do it in a single click.
I remember so many long days and nights when I started all ears English,
trying to figure out how to make my website work.
But Shopify's built-in AI assistant sidekick is ready to help you build,
troubleshoot, and keep moving if questions come up.
All you need is the idea.
Shopify handles the rest.
Start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AEE.
Again, start your free trial at Shopify.com slash AEE.
One more time.
Get your free trial at SHOPIFY.com slash AEE.
Okay.
So Aubrey, so can you say the opposite?
Can you say I don't hate something or I don't hate it?
Absolutely.
Well, I don't hate it.
It actually means the same thing, I think.
If I'm like, I don't love it.
Or I'm like, I don't hate it.
It's kind of the same for me.
Both of them are not true.
That's true.
That's so interesting.
It is interesting.
It's really interesting to me.
It's kind of the same.
Yeah.
So you could say, oh, I don't hate it.
That's what I said.
Right.
And it could actually be pretty positive sounding
in a weird way.
Yeah.
Let's do this for over all.
So what do you think of the coffee?
I know you're a coffee snob.
Let's see.
Hmm.
Hmm.
I don't hate it.
Okay.
Yeah.
It's interesting because if I said I don't love it,
it would mean more like it sounds worse than saying
I don't hate it.
That is really interesting.
And I guess that makes sense because I don't hate it.
Should mean a little more like I actually like it.
And it is.
Like this feels more like actually, I like it.
And we'll often say that when we're surprised.
Like maybe we expected to not like something.
I don't hate it.
And then we like it.
Huh.
I don't hate it.
Like I thought I would hate it, but I don't.
So funny.
Yeah.
Really interesting.
How these expressions work.
But you can also use it like this.
So here's an example.
I went to them all and they put
in a new restaurant.
I didn't hate it.
It'll probably do well there.
Nice.
And I, when I say this,
the intonation is interesting, right?
If I say like I didn't hate it,
that sounds like I also didn't love it.
But if I say like I went to them all and they put in a new restaurant,
I didn't hate it.
It'll probably do well there.
That means I really liked it.
It's all about your intonation.
There's intonation that can make it sound more cute, right?
I didn't hate it.
It's like I liked it.
You can't just say this in a monotone.
No.
You know, at least it wouldn't be clear.
If you're like I didn't hate it.
That sounds like I didn't really like it, but I didn't treat it.
Right.
Right.
So if you are a little bit more emphatic,
like oh, I didn't hate it and sound a little surprised,
that sounds more polite.
I liked it.
Totally.
Yeah.
So this is tricky.
You could confuse someone
depending on the intonation you use and the context, right?
You need very clear intonation.
And also recognize that is a possibility.
These, there are lots of different meanings
depending on the intonation.
So anticipate that.
That there could be misunderstandings
when you're trying to use these.
And then make sure to share details after that make it clear.
If you're like I didn't hate it.
It was actually amazing.
The dessert was fantastic.
The Andreid, right?
The more details you share, the more it's clear
what you meant by that phrase.
Exactly.
Exactly.
I mean, or you could say something like
I don't hate what they've done with the design.
Right.
So that's more positive sounding
rather than like, oh, I don't hate what they've done with the design.
Exactly.
Right.
Again, the more detail you share.
If you then share how you love the spiral staircase
or you love whatever about the lines,
the motif, then that's going to
clue them into what you actually mean.
Right.
Yeah.
So guys, again, it can be a little tricky
because of context intonation.
Aubrey, you also use the word loaded
to talk about this earlier.
There's a lot to this.
Like, I would say, I think I don't love it
as a little bit more natural and easier
to kind of navigate, but I don't know if you agree.
Yeah.
I can see what you mean.
I think I use, I don't love it more often.
I use, I don't hate it more with like really exaggerated
or exaggerated intonation to share that I expected to dislike something.
Right.
And I'm surprised how much I loved it.
Right.
If I get like a cheap ice cream
that I'm like, this might not be good
because it was two bucks at the or whatever.
And then I'm like, oh, I don't hate this
because I'm also sharing that I expected to not be impressed.
And then I was.
Yes.
And there's on that the best.
Yes.
You might also say, I'm pleasantly surprised.
Right.
That's a good bonus.
I'm pleasantly surprised.
Surprise.
Yes.
So this is a role play.
We are friends at a hot sauce store
trying samples, Michelle.
I have to tell you because hot sauce has come up here.
Have you seen the TV show?
I know what you're called.
Corporate retreat.
How many retreats?
How many retreats?
Aubrey, we have so many of, we have a show.
We have a show.
We will.
Yes.
So guys, Michelle and I were thinking about when I was so happy.
Michelle.
When, so we were going to speak more about this off the air.
But I just want to share with all of you listening.
If you haven't seen it, you've got to watch it.
I loved it so much.
You need to first watch Jury Dooty.
That was the first season.
Which was incredible.
Which was incredible.
James Marzen is so amazing in it.
And the whole setup is that there's one person
who doesn't realize they're on a TV show that they're,
it's like, candid camera where they don't realize
everyone else is an actor.
Everyone's an actor except one person who's just a normal person.
Like me, or Michelle, or anybody out there listening.
And they're, but they're filming everything
because they're like, oh, we're filming for a documentary,
whatever.
So they know there are cameras.
So there may be on the little bit on better behavior
because they know they're cameras.
But they don't know that everyone else is an actor.
And these actors are doing increasingly
crazy stuff to see how this regular person reacts.
And it is so funny.
I laugh so hard.
So watch Jury Dooty first.
We have to be obsessed with it.
And it's also so good because there's such short episodes.
Like it's not like they go by and they're not,
yeah, it's awesome.
So go watch it.
I'm glad you read the name of it
because I was calling it corporate retreat.
But it's company retreat.
Company retreat.
Yes, guys, go watch it.
Leave a comment for us on YouTube
to see if you liked it as much as Michelle and I did.
And then we'll talk about it more later.
I'm obsessed with it.
I think it's so fun.
I love it too.
I love it too.
All right, so here we are at the hot toy store.
It's so fun.
Try examples.
Okay, this one is called hot hot hot.
Okay, I'll try it.
I don't love it.
Yeah, I mean, I don't love when there's a fruity taste
to a hot sauce.
If it's sweet.
Same.
All right, next one.
Hotter than the sun.
Okay, here it goes.
Hmm, I don't hate it.
Yeah, it's not bad.
Nice, right?
And so there when I say I don't hate it,
I mean, I really like this.
Mm-hmm.
Interesting.
So good.
Yeah, so first I said, I'm trying, I said,
hmm, I don't love it.
So this definitely sounds like,
I'm not a huge fan.
Exactly.
Like I don't hate it,
but I certainly wouldn't like order it
and put it on a barbecue sandwich, right?
I don't like it that much.
Yeah.
And then I said, yeah, I don't love
when there's a fruity taste in a barbecue sauce.
We'll often use it this way.
I'm saying, it means the exact same thing
as I don't like when there's blah, blah, blah, blah.
But we say it this way as well.
I don't love when it's like this.
Yeah.
And then I said, okay, next one.
So we're going to the next sample.
I said, hotter than the sun.
And you said, okay, here it goes.
And then you said, hmm, I don't hate it,
which means you're pleasantly surprised.
Exactly.
You thought that you, you didn't have high hopes
based on the last one.
After this fruity one, I'm like,
these are all gonna be gross.
And then this one, I love.
So I'm like, okay, I don't hate it.
Meaning I don't really like this one.
But again, if the intonation were different,
if I was just like, I don't hate it.
I don't hate it.
I mean, it's okay.
So it really depends on your intonation here.
So go back and listen, pay attention
to the intonation we're using.
It is sort of over exaggerated.
If you're wanting to say, I love this.
I don't hate this.
It's pretty extreme intonation.
Yeah.
Um, so guys, if you haven't already,
go back a few episodes.
We did that was 2648 of the Aller's English podcast.
That was tough love for your English.
So I'll rate takeaways for today.
I mean, this is just so interesting.
There's so much about context, intonation,
really paying attention here.
And considering how you wanna use these phrases,
but they are very natural.
Absolutely.
And variety of vocabulary.
You don't wanna say, I like this.
I like that.
I don't like this.
I don't like that.
That's so boring.
These are way more interesting ways to say that.
Oh my gosh.
And if listeners as already are preparing
for the IELTS exam, you know we have another podcast,
IELTS energy, but if you're listening to Aller's English,
which you should be as well,
to learn vocabulary and strategies
and improve your listening skills,
this is a great IELTS strategy to avoid vocabulary.
This is high scoring vocabulary
that pushes you to use high scoring pronunciation
which is instead of saying I like this and I like that,
I didn't hate that.
I didn't love that.
Use this on IELTS speaking exam.
Uh-huh, exactly.
All right, all right, this has been so much fun.
And guys, we'll see you on the next episode.
See you next time.
Bye.
Thanks for listening to Aller's English.
Would you like to know your English level?
Take our two minute quiz.
Go to aller'senglish.com forward slash fluency score.
And if you believe in connection, not perfection,
then hit subscribe now to make sure you don't miss anything.
See you next time.
Bye.
My entire 401k, thinking someone stole my identity.
A fake email cost me my dream home
after I sent my personal information to a scammer.
My AI agent wired thousands to an account I'd never seen.
When billions of people feel unsafe,
that's no longer a security problem.
It's an economic one.
At Gen, we're building the trust layer
for a more fearless planet with products and technologies
from our global brands, Norton, Lifelux, Avast,
and Money Lion.
See it in action at gendigital.com.
Hard Rock Casino Tehone, where everybody equals rewards time.
Save her bold flavors at Deep Cut, Stakens, E-Foot.
Discover your love for Pan Asian at UU,
or grab a classic at Hard Rock Cafe.
Sign up for Unity by Hard Rock today.
Most be 21 years of age or older.
Problem gambling, car 1-800 gambler.